Rolls-Royce saves millions in cost avoidance with Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing | Microsoft Customer Stories
This is the Trace Id: 97efbe96fb406654a05e4dac135955ed
Skip to main content
Customer Stories
All stories
AI & Microsoft Copilot
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Security
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
NFL
Premier League
Microsoft 365
Dynamics 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Security
Nonprofit
Microsoft Security
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Teams
Windows 365
Microsoft AI
Azure Space
Mixed reality
Microsoft HoloLens
Microsoft Viva
Quantum computing
Sustainability
Education
Automotive
Financial services
Government
Healthcare
Manufacturing
Retail
Find a partner
Become a partner
Partner Network
Microsoft Marketplace
AppSource
Blog
Microsoft Advertising
Developer Center
Documentation
Events
Licensing
Microsoft Learn
Microsoft Research
View Sitemap
4/1/2025
Rolls-Royce saves millions in cost avoidance with Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing</h1>">
Rolls-Royce saves millions in cost avoidance with Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing
Share the story
Share this story
LinkedIn
Facebook
X
WhatsApp
Email
Executive summary
Rolls-Royce wanted to improve productivity and reduce costs across its design, build, and operate functions, as part of its digital transformation.
The company used Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing to create efficiencies in engine design, turbine production, and engine health monitoring with generative AI and machine learning.
Rolls-Royce increased machine usage 30%, with significantly less scrap. The company also accelerated fault resolution from days to near real time. It detects and prevents around 400 unplanned maintenance events annually, saving millions in repairs.
READ THE STORY
Millions of euros in cost avoidance
Fault resolution from days to near real time
For more than a century, Rolls-Royce has been a force for progress, powering, protecting, and connecting people everywhere. From propulsion to power solutions, on land, at sea, and in the air, the company has never stopped evolving. In 2023, Rolls-Royce launched a bold, multiyear transformation program to become a high-performing, competitive, resilient, and growing business enabled by digital and AI technologies.
As part of this strategy, the business is using digital technologies and AI to create competitive advantages across the value chain, from designing and building to operating an engine.
“Digital is a key enabler of our transformation,” says Nikki Grady-Smith, Chief Transformation Officer at Rolls-Royce. “And whilst we are already seeing clear benefits—whether in engine design, operations, or customer solutions—there’s still much more to unlock.”
Innovative AI and cloud-based improvements
The company is redefining how it designs, builds, and maintains its world-class engines and systems. With the help of Microsoft and Siemens technologies, Rolls-Royce is using AI to accelerate design, streamline production, boost engine efficiency, and predict maintenance needs before issues arise.
“We are investing heavily in modernizing our systems and improving our design engineering,” says Kaveh Pourteymour, Group Chief Digital Information Officer at Rolls-Royce. “By embracing Microsoft AI and digital technologies, we will develop efficient and fully utilized smart factories, whilst enhancing our customer and employee experience.”
Rolls-Royce is building a central data repository to connect its data and restructuring its information for use by generative AI. The company wants to create a robust foundation for a seamless digital thread across its value chain. Microsoft AI and cloud capabilities are supporting the journey, helping Rolls-Royce explore ways to enhance productivity and efficiency.
“We’re working with Microsoft to develop tailored technologies to address our unique challenges and push the boundaries of what’s possible,” says Pourteymour.
“By digitizing operations, we’re driving engineering innovation while reducing cost and time to market, to deliver an enhanced customer experience. Microsoft is a key partner on our digital journey. With cutting-edge technologies, we are accelerating the pace and intensity of our transformation, helping to redefine the future for Rolls-Royce.”
Kaveh Pourteymour, Group Chief Digital Info Officer, Rolls-Royce
Accelerating engine design
Engine design was traditionally a manual process that took years. Now, with technology stacks such as
Microsoft Azure Databricks
, Unity Catalog, and high-powered GPUs, engineers can explore a broader range of design parameters in hours.
AI-powered automation speeds up component selection and assembly, reducing manual effort and accelerating production. These advancements enable smaller, more agile teams to innovate quickly, cutting time to market and enhancing responsiveness to industry demands.
Keeping cool: AI-powered turbine blade inspection
Rolls-Royce is also using AI and machine learning to revolutionize its turbine blade manufacturing with “Signature Analyzer,” predicting defects quickly and efficiently.
Workers create a sophisticated system of cooling channels and holes across the surface of turbine blades, to protect them from the extreme heat generated by the combustion process. Manual inspection was incredibly time-consuming and often created a production bottleneck.
“Historically, we inspected about 2 million cooling holes per month manually,” says Tim Pickup, Digital Manufacturing Lead at Rolls-Royce. “With Microsoft AI, we’re able to optimize manual inspection, dramatically reducing the processing time of each component.”
Machine vibration analysis and generative AI have optimized defect detection, enabling inspectors to focus on specific areas rather than having to check each hole. This has boosted machine utilization by 30%, significantly minimized erroneous scrap from the manual inspection process, and accelerated fault resolution from days to near real time.
AI-powered engine health monitoring: Maximizing time on wing
Advancements in digital technology are blurring the line between product and aftermarket services. The Rolls-Royce Pearl aircraft engine family features the state-of-the-art Engine Vibration Health Monitoring Unit (EVHMU), enhancing on-wing intelligence for best-in-class availability and predictive maintenance. With two-way communication, Rolls-Royce can remotely reconfigure engine monitoring features from the ground. Fueled by
Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing
and cloud-based analytics, this system tracks more than 10,000 engine parameters with exceptional data quality.
Across all fleets, Rolls-Royce detects and prevents around 400 unplanned maintenance events a year, saving millions in repair costs and minimizing disruptions for customers.
Accelerating innovation
This is just the beginning. These advanced digital solutions are driving efficiency, accelerating engineering capability, and redefining what is possible.
“By digitizing operations, we’re driving engineering innovation while reducing cost and time to market, to deliver an enhanced customer experience,” says Pourteymour. “Microsoft is a key partner on our digital journey. With cutting-edge technologies, we are accelerating the pace and intensity of our transformation, helping to redefine the future for Rolls-Royce.”
Discover more about
Rolls-Royce
on
Facebook
,
Instagram
,
LinkedIn
,
X/Twitter
, and
YouTube
.
“We are investing heavily in modernizing our systems and improving our design engineering. By embracing Microsoft AI and digital technologies, we will develop efficient and fully utilized smart factories, whilst enhancing our customer and employee experience.”
Kaveh Pourteymour, Group Chief Digital Info Officer, Rolls-Royce
Discover more details
CUSTOMER
Rolls Royce
PRODUCTS
Azure
Azure Databricks
SERVICES AND SUPPORT
Microsoft Cloud for Manufacturing
ORGANIZATION SIZE
10,000+ employees
COUNTRY/REGION
United Kingdom
BUSINESS NEED
Artificial Intelligence
INDUSTRY
Discrete Manufacturing
Share the story
Explore related stories</h2> ">
Explore related stories
Stories in this industry
Stories about this customer
"Previous"
"Next"
Showing
32
of
98
categories
Showing 1-2 of 2 slides
Previous slide
Next slide
We are Microsoft
Empowering others
Our mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
Microsoft
Apple
Google
Label
We are Microsoft
Empowering others
Our mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
Label
Back to carousel navigation controls
Load more
Take the next step
Fuel innovation with Microsoft</h2> ">
Fuel innovation with Microsoft
Explore more customer stories</h3> ">
Explore more customer stories
Find out how customers are achieving more with Microsoft products and solutions.
Search all stories
Talk to an expert about custom solutions</h3> ">
Talk to an expert about custom solutions
Let us help you create customized solutions and achieve your unique business goals.
Contact Sales
Microsoft 365
Dynamics 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Security
Nonprofit
Transform work with Microsoft AI</h3> ">
Transform work with Microsoft AI
Bring intelligence into the flow of work and help your organization achieve its goals with secure, scalable AI solutions.
Explore AI solutions
Follow Microsoft
Surface Book 3
Surface Pro
Microsoft Copilot
Microsoft 365
Windows 11 apps
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store Support
Extended holiday returns
Order tracking
Support
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
Office Education
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
Azure for students
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Advertising
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Microsoft Power Platform
Software companies
Visual Studio
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
English (WW)
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Consumer Health Privacy
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
About our ads