Innovating impactful Solutions for our customers | DBS Bank
DBS Group Holdings Ltd
Annual Report 2024
Close
Overview
Home
Making Greater Impact
Who we are
Delivering impactful growth for shareholders
Innovating impactful solutions for customers
Creating an impactful future for society
Board of Directors
Group Management Committee
Letter from Chairman & CEO
15 years of leading with excellence
Reflections from the top
CEO reflections
Deputy CEO reflections
CFO statement
CRO statement
CIO statement
Institutional Banking
Consumer Banking/Wealth Management
POSB Highlights in 2024
Downloads
Making Greater Impact
Download Annual Report 2024
|
中文
Partnering for Asia’s Transition
Download Sustainability Report 2024
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Innovating impactful
Solutions
for customers
Listen to this chapter
-->
0:00
/
5:48
1x
1.5x
2x
We leverage our technology capabilities, new ways of working and deep ecosystem partnerships to develop innovative solutions that create greater value for our 19 million customers.
1
Dialling up our AI strategy to better serve our customers Doubling down on anti-scam efforts
Our data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI)/ machine learning (ML) initiatives delivered over SGD 750 million of economic value in 2024, more than double that in the previous year. We now have over 1,500 models across more than 370 use cases. They include sending more than 1.2 billion personalised nudges to more than 13 million customers across the region. In Singapore, those who engaged with the nudges and used our AI-powered financial planning tool saved two times more, invested five times more and were nearly three times more insured than non-users.
2
Doubling down on anti-scam efforts
We continued to register strong traction for our suite of self-managed security features. Over 1.5 million customers in Singapore have leveraged these tools to protect themselves from scammers. To cater to customers' growing preference for greater control over the security of their funds, we added new features to make it even easier to lock their savings or file a card fraud dispute.
3
Extending our digital payments leadership in Singapore
More than seven in 10 PayNow fund transfers and payments in Singapore today are performed by DBS customers. Our mobile wallet PayLah!, which marked its 10
th
year in service, hit a record 41.6 million logins a month, which included more than 60% of all scan-to-pay transactions in hawker centres, outpacing peers. Outside of Singapore, 2.8 million users can pay at over 77 million QR acceptance points worldwide. In the past year, cross-border QR payments made through PayLah! nearly tripled in transaction volume.
4
Supporting companies’ supply chain diversification
We supported our customers’ supply chain diversification by leveraging our extensive footprint in North, South and Southeast Asia. Coupled with our deep industry expertise and innovative financing solutions, we enabled our customers to capture investment opportunities and trade flows. Our ability to bridge East and West was an added advantage to Western multinationals expanding into Asia.
5
Launching new blockchain solutions for institutional customers
We introduced DBS Token Services, a suite of blockchain-powered services leveraging tokenisation and smart contracts, to unlock new transaction banking capabilities and operating efficiencies for our institutional clients. Early adopters include Ant International, which has been using the service for instant multi-currency treasury and liquidity management.
6
Futureproofing SMEs for the new economy
Our Bridging Business Horizons Programme helps SMEs in Singapore expand overseas and capture regional business opportunities. This has helped to facilitate about 1,000 regional business connections and engagements since its launch. Our Spark GenAI Programme aims to accelerate the adoption of Gen AI solutions among SMEs.