Skywise Core | Airbus
Skip to main content
Skip to search
Open menu
Close menu
Menu
Open search form
Close search form
Search
Close search form
What are you looking for?
Search
Search
The digital platform to navigate your world
show more
show less
Skywise Core is a toolbox fuelled by Skywise expertise and Palantir Technologies, best-in-class data analytics provider. It allows operators worldwide to take advantage of a better aircraft experience based on data insights and make the right operational decisions.
By combining in-flight, engineering and operational data in an analytic rich environment, Skywise Core provides airlines with an industry data platform purpose-built to address their main challenges.
12 300+
Aircraft connected to the Skywise platform, leveraging real-time data for predictive maintenance, optimised operations, and enhanced fleet performance.
20+
App Editors & Certified Partners, ready to enhance your aircraft operations with innovative solutions for immediate improvements.
55 000+
Users worldwide, harnessing data-driven insights to enhance aircraft performance and operational efficiency.
Discover Skywise Core
0:03:29
Skywise Core [X]
From 2017 Airbus has been pioneering the digital transformation of the aviation industry by providing Skywise, the leading data platform. Today, 5 years later, Airbus launches the Skywise Core [X] offer to help you embrace a data-driven strategy with new features, tools and services that bring more rapidity and efficiency in decision making to be more resilient to crisis and in a changing world. Discover how the new Skywise experience can help to [navigate your world].
Powering your data-driven strategy
Skywise has been pioneering the digital transformation of the aviation industry. With Skywise Core, airlines can embrace a data-driven strategy with features, tools and services that bring more rapidity and efficiency in decision-making to be more resilient to crisis, in a changing world. Artificial Intelligence capabilities, Digital Twin creation, application builder without coding skills, etc., all the tools you need to simplify the data analytics process and maximise the insights are available in Skywise Core.
Skywise Core Infographic
3 incremental packages - 3 levels of digital transformation
Pick the offer that suits you best!
Talk with an expert to learn about our solutions.
The Future Of Digital At Airbus
Digital solutions based on the power of the platform
S.Fleet Performance+ gives airlines the possibility to maximise fleet availability, reduce aircraft downtime and to predict and plan maintenance tasks at a suitable time.
Recommendations provided by the solution are extensive, from addressing in-flight real time events up to long-term reliability. Health monitoring, predictive maintenance and reliability are the 3 big capabilities adressed by the solution.
Learn more
Get more from the Skywise platform
Skywise Store
Browse and access a marketplace of digital aviation apps from Skywise.
Skywise Partners
Accelerate your digital transformation as a Skywise partner.
Success stories from our customers
We took a very complex use case with a high monitoring value. Process where a small gap, a small change has a big impact on savings. 0.3 point equals 10% savings in maintenance. We centralised it in one solution where everybody sees the same data, creating one source of truth, empowering all of our users to make good decisions.
Yonathan Perelmuter
Technical Pilot & Captain
We see a 10% to 20% time saved with the use of Skywise Core. We are not working from quite a few disparate data sources, we are working from one single source [...] improving the quality of the work that comes out.
Jim Jackson
Predictive Technologies Engineering
Skywise is ISO 27001 certified
This certificate ISO 27001:2022 delivered by BSI is a demonstration of Airbus commitment and compliance in its Information Security Management System to operate Skywise’s services.
ISO Certificate
AIRBUS SAS - ISO 27001 - IS 815238
ISO Certificate
AIRBUS SAS - ISO 27001 - IS 815238