Berenberg receives prestigious Global Private  Banking Innovation Award 2025 - Berenberg
Login
MENU
Login
MENU
Login
MENU
Berenberg has pursued a clear AI strategy since 2018, implementing initiatives at an early stage. Using traditional AI (pattern recognition methods through machine learning on alternative data), the bank manages approximately 6 billion Euros in assets under management (AuM). Since late 2022, the bank has also introduced generative AI (Gen-AI)-based assistance systems, such as an equity research assistant for portfolio managers in asset management and for sell-side analysts in the investment bank. This award-winning AI approach stands for measurable impact, strategic focus, and profound cultural transformation.
Nico Baum, Head of Innovation & Data at Berenberg
, is responsible for the bank’s overall AI activities and transformation. At the award ceremony in Singapore, he stated: “Our vision is clear: AI should be used responsibly, in a values-driven and human-centered way. As Germany’s oldest private bank, we are committed to actively shaping the future of the banking landscape and setting new standards. Artificial intelligence is of strategic importance to us – which is why we systematically prioritize based on impact and feasibility to create meaningful innovation.”
Berenberg’s success in technological transformation is based on a two-pronged AI approach: The so-called “Base AI” focuses on daily productivity gains through widespread AI adoption, for example via standard GenAI tools. In parallel, the “Tailored AI” concept enables the development of highly specialized applications, individually trained based on proprietary data and processes. This is supported by an internal ecosystem for data management and AI governance, ensuring scalability, compliance, and security.
“Being honored with the Global Private Banking Innovation Award as a bank with a long-standing tradition affirms our strategy of consistently investing in forward-looking technologies – while staying true to our values,” said Nico Baum. “We believe the true value lies in the combination of human expertise and AI. We see AI as a tool to empower our teams and enhance our business models.”
The Global Private Banking Innovation Award 2025 ceremony in Singapore highlights Berenberg’s position as a pioneer in artificial intelligence – and as a bank shaping technological change responsibly and effectively.
Berenberg Logo
05062025 Berenberg Global Private Banking Award 2025 EN
pdf,
110 KB
Berenberg Logo
20250604 Global Private Banker Summit 2025
PNG,
1 MB
Famke Lohmann
Communications
Phone +49 40 350 60-2287
Contact us
Important information
This information is a marketing communication. This information and references to issuers, financial instruments or financial products do not constitute an investment strategy recommendation pursuant to Article 3 (1) No. 34 Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on market abuse (market abuse regulation) nor an investment recommendations pursuant to Article 3 (1) No. 35 Regulation (EU) No 596/2014, both provisions in connection with section 85 (1) of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). As a marketing communication this document does not meet all legal requirements to warrant the objectivity of investment recommendations and investment strategy recommendations and is not subject to the ban on trading prior to the publication of investment recommendations and investment strategy recommendations. This document is intended to give you an opportunity to form your own view of an investment. However, it does not replace a legal, tax or individual financial advice. Your investment objectives and your personal and financial circumstances were not taken into account. We therefore expressly point out that this information does not constitute individual investment advice. Any products or securities described may not be available for purchase in all countries or only in certain investor categories. This information may only be distributed within the framework of applicable law and in particular not to citizens of the USA or persons resident in the USA. The statements made herein have not been audited by any external party, particularly not by an independent auditing firm. Any future returns on fund investments may be subject to taxation, which depends on the personal situation of the investor and may change in the future. Returns on investments in foreign currencies may increase or decrease due to currency fluctuations. The purchase, holding, conversion or sale of a financial instrument, as well as the use or termination of an investment service, may give rise to costs that affect the expected income. A fund investment involves the purchase of shares in an investment fund, but not a specific underlying asset (e.g. shares in a company) held by that fund. The statements contained in this document are based either on own company sources or on publicly accessible thirdparty sources and reflect the status of information as of the date of preparation of the presentation stated below. Subsequent changes cannot be taken into account in this document. The information given can become incorrect due to the passage of time and/or as a result of legal, political, economic or other changes. We do not assume responsibility to indicate such changes and/or to publish an updated document. Please refer to the online glossary at
https://www.berenberg.de/en/gl...
for definitions of the technical terms used in this document. The images used in this document are for illustrative purposes only. They do not refer to specific products, services, persons or actual situations and should not be used as a basis for decisions or actions. Date 05.06.2025
More news
24 Sep 2026
Dr. Hans-Walter Peters Increases Share- holdings In Berenberg By 5 %
Hamburg. Dr. Hans-Walter Peters, long-time partner of Berenberg, is acquiring the 5% share in Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG previously held by former Man...
17 Sep 2026
Dr Christian Schumacher Joins the Extended Management Board of Berenberg
Hamburg. Dr Christian Schumacher is returning to Berenberg. Effective immediately, he will become a member of the extended Management Board, with plans for him...
24 Aug 2026
Döhle Group Becomes Shareholder in Berenberg
The Hamburg-based Döhle Group is becoming a shareholder in the Hamburg private bank Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG. The von Berenberg family is acquiring...